---
layout: single
title: "Mi primer post"
date: 2024-06-22 10:00:00 -0400
categories: 
  - Blog
tags:
  - Jekyll
  - GitHub Pages
---
What happens if I take a function and evaluate it at a value, then use the result to evaluate the same function again, and then with this new result evaluate the same function again, and so on indefinitely. Let's say I store these results in a set. Depending on the function, it could happen that, regardless of the initial value I choose for my evaluation, my set diverges and with each new iteration it gets closer to infinity, like f(x) = x + x , or it converges and gets very close to or reaches a certain value, like f(x) = x  (which is a very boring function but a totally valid one that converges if evaluated recursively no matter the initial seed or starting value), or it could enter a cycle of periodicity like f(x) = 4/x, giving me the same results in a periodic manner.

I could also find functions that do depend on the initial value and show one behavior or another. For example, the function f(x) = x^2 - 2, which has chaotic behavior but has attractor points depending on the initial conditions.

Lastly, we also have functions for which recursion leads us to values for which the function is not defined, for example, the function f(x) = sqrt(x) , which tends to one for positives but is not defined for negatives... unless we use complex numbers.

But using complex numbers opens the door to a whole new world of initial values. In fact, it fills the plane if we imagine that each point of a plane corresponds to an initial value that could be on the x-axis, meaning it belongs to the set of reals, but also have a componet on the y-axis and belongs to the world of complex numbers.

The Julia set is this: let's say that for each function, we can take the plane with all the initial values and assign a color depending on whether it converges or diverges, and the speed at which it does so.

Let's take, for example, the following function  f(z) = z^2 + c  where  c is a constant complex number ( 0.28 - 0.01i ) and z can be any value in the complex number plane.
We would have the following figure, showing in dark red the z values where the equation converges and in dark blue where it diverges at great speed.

       
<div>
<script src="https://cdn.plot.ly/plotly-2.27.0.min.js"></script>
<script src="https://cdn.plot.ly/plotly-latest.min.js"></script>
    <div id="myDiv"></div>
    <script src="/assets/js/julia2.js"></script>
</div>


What makes Julia sets fascinating is their intricate and often highly detailed fractal structure. They exhibit self-similarity at different scales, meaning that zooming into a Julia set reveals similar patterns as the overall set. This property makes them visually stunning and mathematically rich objects of study.